  
\#Overview

ClassAct is a lightweight LMS for higher education that's designed to promote classroom community In the context of face-to-face higher education classrooms. On some level it is just a collection of different apps designed to enable a particular type of higher education classroom experience. That experience will be one that promotes student networking / meeting new people and high levels of engagement with the material . 

\- \- \-

\#Revenue Model 

Professors aren't going to pay for anything. Students really hate paying for anything. As a professor you have to go through a lot of trouble to get them to pay for stuff that's sort of outside the normal textbook-bookstore kind of track. Therefore the realistic sources of revenue come down to either getting universities to pay for something (presuming the product is sufficiently adopted and of significant value) or some other more creative revenue model. 

One idea for a revenue model would be to leverage the information generated by the system to pick the best students. The best team members, the ones who are admired by their peers, the ones who are admired by the faculty. There was an Ed Tech company a while back that did something like this called Piazza. Essentially what they did was they had an online discussion board and the people that were the most active in the discussion board were scored highly. This would be kind of the same idea but for the in-class experience. Also Piazza's revenue model was to just sell the data or access to the students. That got them into a lot of trouble so our revenue model will be to place students. We will act as a headhunter and earn a 10% finder's fee for selecting the best students. 

Note: Not only because of the cautionary tale of Piazza but also because of the fact that this system sort of inherently competes with the university's Ranking as a way of credentialing students, we're going to have to be very careful that the students own their data and then we don't do anything Potentially offensive. If we get enough traction at a school, we can essentially hand off our own headhunting activities to the university's job placement division and take ourselves out of it. If we're collecting enough information, we'll just sell that back to the university and let them decide what to do with it. 

\- \- \-

\#Random Insights

\#I previously helped build a system like this some years back called ClassroomDJ.com. I have some insights into how people react to it or what sort of things might be useful to have. 

\#Faculty concerns

The number one question that I used to get when I would talk about systems like this was: "Does it integrate with Canvas or does it integrate with Blackboard?" When I asked faculty what they wanted it to integrate with Blackboard for, they didn't know but they still felt strongly that it was important that it did. Therefore we must be able to claim some sort of Blackboard integration.

Off the top of my head I'm thinking you can link it to your Blackboard or Canvas LMS course and it will import your student list. There should also be a seamless way of pushing grades back into Canvas.  For example there might be some sort of participation score that gets pushed back into Canvas. 

Data privacy will be a big concern

\#\# Faculty Usage

Faculty will do almost nothing (literally close to zeros) different from what they currently do. Many of them have put a lot of thought into how they deliver their class. They're not going to want to switch to a new system. Many of them are shockingly unsophisticated when it comes to technology more generally. About the most you're going to be able to get them to do is:

* upload their syllabus  
* upload their lecture notes  
* maybe their assignment files

After that the AI is going to have to do things like:

* pull learning objectives out of their syllabus  
* write think-pair-share questions based on their lectures that they give

Any messaging about how engagement helps students learn better sounds great in practice but faculty really don't care. They're proud of their materials and how they do things but students do things that irritate them. Basically they don't respect their work that they put into their materials. They try to do the least work possible. They try to pay as little attention as possible. Students will always prioritize other parts of the college experience over learning, which drives faculty insane. This system ultimately is going to have to position itself as a way to minimize faculty pain points. Flowery language about engagement and learning and this kind of stuff is fine in moderation but that's not going to sell any faculty on this. 

\- \- \-

\#Brand / Domains

I have registered the following domain names:

* classact.ai  
* classact.college  
* classact.work

I'm a little nervous about the.ai domain name, given how averse college students seem to be to AI right now. I'm thinking that it'll be hosted under the classact.college and then maybe later we can think of Integrated system that would live under classact.work

\#\#Target  
Students are going to hate this system. They enjoy sitting in class and doing online shopping while paying as little attention as possible. Therefore they are not going to like this system unless, of course, it gets them a job. This will be primarily directed at faculty in minimizing their pain points. 

\- \- \-

 \#Instructor pain points 

Students not coming to class. Another pain point is that when instructors try to take attendance using a system like Top Hat or clickers, many students will try to click in from home or have their friends take their clicker to class and click in for them. Therefore there has to be a way to verify the attendance-taking process. And nobody wants to spend their time in the beginning of class doing a roll call for 40 students.  

Students on laptops who are surfing and Shopping and otherwise not engaged with what is going on in the class. Instructors, many instructors just have a no-laptop policy, which is fine but you have to enforce it, which is a giant pain because students are addicted to their technology so they keep bringing it out. Also many of them will say, "Well I need to take notes and you're restricting my learning." So then it gets into a whole issue with having to give accommodations to some people. It's just a fricking pain.  

Coming up with think-pair-share questions or making any modifications to their current slides. As mentioned above professors are not going to do anything that they don't already do or that they didn't think of themselves. Everything is going to have to be AI-generated. The majority of faculty don't even use Blackboard So even setting up an account seems like a major hassle. Might even consider just setting up counts for people in advance and sending it by grabbing their syllabus out of a public syllabus repository and just sending them the link that says, "Hey we went ahead and set this up for you. By the way click here to act if you want to activate it."    
    
Slacker students who rely on their group project team members to do their work for them. Mostly this is a pain for students but sometimes faculties get dragged into the situation.  

Grade-Grubbing This pane only seems to pop up at exams and at the end of the semester. Sometimes what it helps to do with this is to show them a distribution and where they are on that distribution. 

Negative evaluations are a fear for professors because you can get fired if you don't get good enough evaluations. In addition to positioning on minimizing pain points, we might also talk about the gains in terms of student satisfaction with the experience and position it as higher, leading to higher evaluations. Again we can talk a little bit about increasing learning outcomes but really I don't think that's what's going to motivate faculty. 

\- \- \-

\#Apps

\#\#Attendance Map

Professors will set up a map of their classroom…maybe by taking a picture I'm giving that to an AI. ,maybe by describing it to an AI (how many rows, how many seats per row, what shape, that sort of thing. Students will come in to the classroom. and they will sign in to their particular seat. They will also have to confirm the people in front of them, behind them, and to the left and to the right. This way it encourages them to talk to other people around them and students can't log on remotely because no one would confirm that they were there.

\#\#Student (and Professor) profiles / icebreaker info

Professors can select the information they want to collect from students.  Students will fill out a profile. Fairly straightforward. One default will be to request three different pictures from the student: a candid selfie, a professional picture, them on an adventure (our Instagram-style picture). This will help learn names because people don't always look like their official campus picture. Other types of data collected might be things to facilitate icebreakers, things like: two truths and a lie, what your first job was and what you learned from it, Or a Spotify playlist 

\#\#Name Games

\#\#\#Flash Cards Name Game  
The name games will leverage student pictures from their profiles and turn those into miniature games for helping the professors and students learn everyone's name. One of the games will be a simple flash card. You'll have a series of flash cards with the student's Picture and you will flip it over to see their name. Alternatively you can show the name first and flip it over to see that picture.  

\#\#\#Memory tiles Name Game  
This name game will function like an old-school memory game where you flip over tiles and when you match the tiles, they go off the board. In this case the tiles will be students' pictures and their names and you will flip them over and then try to remember where the other one was. When you match the student with their name, their name is removed from the board. 

\#\#\#\#While the primary memory tiles name game will help students learn each other's names, once that's accomplished we should switch to a version where instead of Just their name, we also have maybe something unique about them. So in this version of the memory tiles game, there would be the person's picture and the other card would be something that's unique about that person. 

\#\#\#Students' scores on the name games will go on to their class act metrics, see below. 

\#\#\#After students check in Via the Attendance seat map , they will be prompted to play the name game while they wait for class to begin. 

\#\#Lecture Dashboard

The lecture dashboard will be A web page that the students have up on their laptop during class.There will be a number of controls, like a dial or slider to go faster or slower, but the main feature for professors will probably be that the system will be able to tell when a student isn't looking at that browser. For example they've gone to YouTube to watch videos and it will mark that down in their class act metrics.   

\#\#Peer Grading

Maybe the number one faculty pain point is grading. Also students are going to vary in terms of their effort that they will put into peer grading for sure. As such it potentially provides valuable insights into their class-act / participation metrics. What I am thinking though is that we might be able to use the same structures that we build for the Lecture dashboard and incorporate that into sort of a peer grading dashboard. So instead of the faculty's lecture, it would show the peer’s submission. Instead of controls like a speed slider and a question mark rating system , there might be things like an attitude slider and a star rating system. Along with a place to provide feedback. In a similar way to how the Lecture dashboard can tell if a student leaves the page. The system would also be able to tell if students are leaving the environment.   

\#\#Class Polls / and “1 minute papers”

This is the primary educational/active learning application in the system. What is unique is that the professor will not be responsible for doing this rather at periodic times determined by best practice. Maybe the incidence of people asking a question or the incidence of people saying things are going too fast. Some sort of key will kick off and the AI will generate a think-pair-share exercise or a one-minute paper that makes sense in the moment. This will relieve professors from the burden of having to think of think-pair-share questions in advance. Note the students' performance on these Think-Pair-Share questions will be recorded in their class hypometrics. 

\#\#Shout-outs

Shoutouts are a way for students to compliment each other when someone is doing a good job or give constructive feedback when someone is doing less than an optimal job. Students aren't really going to volunteer for these so they'll have to be incentivized in some way. We can gamify it by earning points in your class act metrics. Additionally we should attach shout out opportunities to the end of Think-Pair-Share Exercises and one-minute papers. Maybe these don't happen in real time but at the end of class as homework because it might be a little awkward with the person sitting next to you. 

\#\#Group project feedback

The key pain point in group projects is when one or two people slack off and let the more Type A students take over and do the whole project. This group project feedback mechanism will be a way of minimizing that. I have played around with something like a sort of a kanban board but I found students weren't interested in using it so this will just happen. I found this to be a very specific form of a shout out where students report on the performance of their group members. I have a version of this that I can share out. 

\#\#\#Relatedly we should have some way of letting students sort themselves into groups for group projects and assignments. This means we probably have to import a list of assignments from the classes' LMS.  

\#\#Faculty feedback

Faculty feedback is sort of another type of shout out, only it's coming from the faculty and so they can share their thoughts on a student. An important aspect of this is that it has to be Anonymous. For example feedback from the faculty won't be shared with the student unless there is a sufficient number of faculty so that the person couldn't be identified (say 5), and even after that point we use AI to summarize and identify themes

\#\#Class Act Metrics

Between the participation in the activities, the behavior that's being tracked by the lecture dashboard, and the variety of shout outs, we can probably put together a nice little set of metrics that inform students about their engagement and their general standing in the class. From a classroom standpoint this can be used to do some sort of class participation score but from a revenue model it can be used to identify the top students. 

\#\#A jobs interface

Students care almost nothing about what they're learning but they do care about getting a job and getting paid. Therefore there should be some sort of interface in the system where they can review job offers. So the idea behind having this be a prominent part of the system is that your behavior in this class is going to give you opportunities to potentially get a job. Having this as a carrot will be important to maximizing student Engagement with the system. 

\#\#\#Student Control

Students will need to have full control over their data. Hard stop. In their profile they need to opt in to receiving job / interview offers. 

\#\#\#Employer interface. 

There needs to be some sort of interface for letting employers select criteria of different students they're interested in interviewing. For example maybe something where they can select particular classes that they're interested in or different skills and how important they are to them: \- Not easily distracted by technology  
\- Being a great team member  
\- Being humble, I.e. accepting someone else's correct answer instead of sticking with your own wrong answer   
\- Charisma   
\- Leadership  
\- Intelligence / Being articulate.   
\- Having a great presence / articulate

The system can then match students with the employer jobs and push interviews to them. Also we can act as an agent and try to get them the best salary. This will be the only thing that students like about it and only the best students will like it. The slacker students are really hoping that their work was done when they graduated high school and now they're just phoning it in and waiting to trade in their Diploma for a job leveraging the brand equity of their school rather than anything that they learned in particular.  
   
\- \- \-

\#App build priority 

The scope of this app is huge obviously but it is important to get it all out there so that we can build the foundation that would allow for All of the features to be incorporated.

\- \- \-

\#Student User Stories

A Student will receive an email from their professor telling them to sign up for a Class Act account. The professor will likely send them some sort of a join code that will allow them to add the specific class. 

The student will create a profile. One default piece of information the students will be asked to provide  would be three different profile pictures, One of the pictures will be “me in class” (I.e. a selfie with their phone from the classroom ), another one will be me on an adventure (I.e. something from their Instagram feed), and another one will be a professional headshot. 

Students will also answer any questions that professors might ask of them. When setting up a class a professor could click a check box to collect any of the following: 

\-Two Truths and a Lie. 

\-my first job and what it taught me. 

\-A URL to a Spotify playlist. 

\- Along with some other choices that are generally useful for ice breaking exercises 

When accessing the system before class has begun students will be prompted to play a name game, That will help them learn the names of their peers. Essentially it functions like a memory tile game Where you match the person's picture with their name and it removes it from the playing space 

There will also be flashcards that have people's pictures on them and you click it to flip and show their name. The pictures will randomly cycle through the three different profile pictures of the person.  

A student enters their classroom at a university. They pull out their laptop or phone and they check in. The way they check in is that it will see a map of their classroom with the different seats and they will pick/select their seat. 

Students will earn a point if they sit in a seat that is different from a seat they have sat in before. In this way we'll encourage the students to move around the room and meet different people. This will be the score, which will be stored on some sort of a dashboard that will be there. “Networking” score, we'll call it. 

They will also have to vouch for the people immediately in front of them, behind them, to the left and to the right of them that they are present. One goal of this is to help people meet new people, sort of as a networking prompt. Another one is to keep people from cheating and saying they are attending class when actually they are not. 

The student will then pull up the PowerPoint presentation for that day so that they can follow along with what's going on in front of them. In that space they'll be able to take notes. Also the system will monitor if they switch off and start going to a different website. For example if they surf to another website to watch videos or do some clothes shopping, it will make a note of that. Also it will keep track of how much time they actually spent following along with the notes. 

At some point in the lecture the student will complete a Think-Pair-Share activity based on topics that have been presented. The system will tell them who they should be paired with because the system will know where everyone is sitting in the room so they will pair them with someone specifically. Ideally the system will not always pair the same two people together but will encourage collaboration with a variety of people. Also the system can pair people who have different answers To a think-pair-share question in order to encourage debate. If you assign two people who have the same answer, then they won't have anything to discuss. 

Typically a think-pair-share will be a multiple-choice question. Students will think to themselves, vote on what they think the right answer is, then pair up and discuss the answer with the person they've been assigned. Ideally the people will not have the same answer. 

The system will keep track of whether the student got it right and whether they changed their answer to a right answer based on what someone said…This will also be sort of a score that's kept about them. Getting the right answer, we'll call that a correctness score. Changing the answer to a right one that somebody else had, we'll call an Open the score. Convincing someone to change their answer in a suboptimal way, we'll call a persuasion score. The point of these different scores is to get sort of an assessment of the person:

* Are they paying attention and getting the right answer?  
* Are they maybe getting the wrong answer but able to recognize the correct answer and move from their previous position after discussion?  
* Or are they just really confident, overconfident even when they are in the wrong?

After the pair-share is done, the lecture will resume. Students will continue following along with the notes. Next to the notes There will be a variety of controls. One of those controls will be a series of three question marks. Students can click a question mark if they don't understand something. If they don't understand it, one question mark. If they really don't understand it, maybe up to three question marks, sort of like a small scale.

Another control will be a specific question that they can post, a small form with a specific question they can post And an AI will answer their question. Sort of like a small version of ChatGPT or other LLM, but one that's been trained on all the course materials and therefore can answer questions quickly that the students have without them needing to raise their hands. 

Another control will be a slider. On the left side it will say "Slow down". On the right-hand side it will say "Speed up". This will give the professor insight into when students need more or less time on a particular topic. 

At some point there may be a group activity. These groups might be groups based on who they're sitting next to in the immediate vicinity or it could be groups based on some sort of assignment or project groups that were created previously. 

Towards the end of the semester the Top students will start seeing their job section populated with interview offers. The companies will be anonymous but it will describe the job. They can then indicate whether or not they would like to schedule that interview for an internship or a permanent position. And Class Act will facilitate the interview process as a headhunter and also negotiate the salary for the student. 

